Reduce intro install to just pip (#77178)
ansible/ansible: docs/docsite/rst/installation_guide/intro_installation.rst

Installing Ansible
******************

> Ansible is an agentless automation tool that you install on a single host (referred to as the control node). From the control node, Ansible can manage an entire fleet of machines and other devices (referred to as managed nodes) remotely via SSH, Powershell remoting, and numerous other transports, all from a simple command-line interface with no databases or daemons required!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ansible is an agentless automation tool that you install on a single host (referred to as the control node). From the control node, Ansible can manage an entire fleet of machines and other devices (referred to as managed nodes) remotely with SSH, Powershell remoting, and numerous other transports, all from a simple command-line interface with no databases or daemons required.
```

        $ ansible myhost --become -m raw -a "yum install -y python2"
.. _getting_ansible:

.. _what_version:

Selecting an Ansible artifact and version to install
Selecting an Ansible package and version to install
====================================================

Starting with version 2.10, Ansible distributes two artifacts: a community package called ``ansible`` and a minimalist language and runtime called ``ansible-core`` (called `ansible-base` in version 2.10). Choose the Ansible artifact and version that matches your particular needs.

Installing the Ansible community package
----------------------------------------

The ``ansible`` package includes the Ansible language and runtime plus a range of community curated Collections. It recreates and expands on the functionality that was included in Ansible 2.9.

> You can choose any of the following ways to install the Ansible community package:

Reviewer 2: I would add `You should look for ansible within the package manager for the distribution you are using, if you cannot find it or not find the specific version you want,  the following section shows how to install using Python specific package manager (pip).`

Reviewer 3: I agree. If we're going to remove exhaustive instructions for various distributions, we should at least mention that such packages exist.

Author: We are purposefully steering people away from using the package manager, and towards pip as the only officially supported installation mechanism.  I did have something before that indicated that you _may_ find packages in your OS distribution package manager, and are free to use them, but with some caveat that we cannot guarantee anything about said distro packages.

I can probably figure a way to add that back.

Author: added

> Ansible's community packages are distributed in two ways: a minimalist language and runtime package called ``ansible-core``, and a much larger "batteries included" package called ``ansible``, which adds a community-curated selection of :ref:`Ansible Collections <collections>` for automating a wide variety of devices. Choose the package that fits your needs; the following instructions will refer to ``ansible``, but ``ansible-core`` can be substituted if you prefer to start with a more minimal package and install only the Ansible Collections you require.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ansible's community packages are distributed in two ways: a minimalist language and runtime package called ``ansible-core``, and a much larger "batteries included" package called ``ansible``, which adds a community-curated selection of :ref:`Ansible Collections <collections>` for automating a wide variety of devices. Choose the package that fits your needs; The following instructions  use ``ansible``, but  you can substitute ``ansible-core``  if you prefer to start with a more minimal package and separately install only the Ansible Collections you require.
```

> Locate and remember the path to the Python interpreter you wish to use to run Ansible. We'll refer to this Python in the following instructions as ``python3``. For example, if you've determined that you want the Python at ``/usr/bin/python3.9`` to be the one that you'll install Ansible under, specify that instead of ``python3``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Locate and remember the path to the Python interpreter you wish to use to run Ansible. The following instructions refer to this Python  as ``python3``. For example, if you've determined that you want the Python at ``/usr/bin/python3.9`` to be the one that you'll install Ansible under, specify that instead of ``python3``.
```

>     $ python3 -m pip install --user ansible

Reviewer 3: I don't think we need to go into a lot of details but should there be a brief mention of python virtual environments and how it compares to ``--user`` ? We can certainly link to https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html for more information.

It's a very common use case that would be worth explaining.

Author: I specifically removed venv instructions.  If users want to use a venv, they should already know what it is

> To install a specific version of ``ansible-core`` in this Python environment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternately, you can install a specific version of ``ansible-core`` in this Python environment:
```

    $ python3 -m pip install --user ansible-core==2.12.3

.. _pip_upgrade:

Upgrading Ansible
-----------------

To upgrade an existing Ansible installation in this Python environment to the latest released version, simply add ``--upgrade`` to the command above:

.. code-block:: console

    $ python3 -m pip install --upgrade --user ansible

Confirming your installation
----------------------------

You can test that Ansible is installed correctly by checking the version:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ ansible --version

> The version displayed by this command is for the associated ``ansible-core`` package that has been installed.

Reviewer 3: I would suggest something like:

> Alternatively, you may also run ``python3 -m pip freeze | grep ansible`` to determine the versions of both ansible and ansible-core that are installed.

Installing Ansible
******************

Ansible is an agentless automation tool that you install on a single host (referred to as the control node). From the control node, Ansible can manage an entire fleet of machines and other devices (referred to as managed nodes) remotely with SSH, Powershell remoting, and numerous other transports, all from a simple command-line interface with no databases or daemons required.

.. contents::
  :local:

.. _control_node_requirements:

Control node requirements
=========================

For your control node (the machine that runs Ansible), you can use nearly any UNIX-like machine with Python 3.8 or newer installed. This includes Red Hat, Debian, Ubuntu, macOS, BSDs, and Windows under a `Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) distribution <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/about>`_. Windows without WSL is not natively supported as a control node; see `Matt Davis' blog post <http://blog.rolpdog.com/2020/03/why-no-ansible-controller-for-windows.html>`_ for more information.

.. _getting_ansible:

.. _what_version:

Selecting an Ansible package and version to install
====================================================

> Ansible's community packages are distributed in two ways: a minimalist language and runtime package called ``ansible-core``, and a much larger "batteries included" package called ``ansible``, which adds a community-curated selection of :ref:`Ansible Collections <collections>` for automating a wide variety of devices. Choose the package that fits your needs; The following instructions  use ``ansible``, but  you can substitute ``ansible-core``  if you prefer to start with a more minimal package and separately install only the Ansible Collections you require. The ``ansible`` or ``ansible-core`` packages may be available in your operating systems package manager, and you are free to install these packages via your preferred method. These installation instructions only cover the officially supported means of installing the python package via ``pip``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ansible's community packages are distributed in two ways: a minimalist language and runtime package called ``ansible-core``, and a much larger "batteries included" package called ``ansible``, which adds a community-curated selection of :ref:`Ansible Collections <collections>` for automating a wide variety of devices. Choose the package that fits your needs; The following instructions  use ``ansible``, but  you can substitute ``ansible-core``  if you prefer to start with a more minimal package and separately install only the Ansible Collections you require. The ``ansible`` or ``ansible-core`` packages may be available in your operating systems package manager, and you are free to install these packages with your preferred method. These installation instructions only cover the officially supported means of installing the python package with ``pip``.
```

> As of Ansible 2.9, you can add shell completion of the Ansible command line utilities by installing an optional dependency called ``argcomplete``. ``argcomplete`` supports bash, and has limited support for zsh and tcsh.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add shell completion of the Ansible command line utilities by installing an optional dependency called ``argcomplete``. ``argcomplete`` supports bash, and has limited support for zsh and tcsh.
```
